README.md, before:

# Montagu Reporting API

See [spec.md](/src/app/src/test/resources/spec/spec.md) for the full API specification.

## Developing
System requirements:
* openjdk 8
* Docker

1. Make sure you check out recursively, using `git clone --recursive URL`.
2. Install Docker and add your user to the Docker group 
   (e.g. https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-install-and-use-docker-on-ubuntu-16-04.) 
   You may need to restart your machine for changes to take effect.
3. Configure your Docker client to use our registry by following instructions 
   here: https://github.com/vimc/montagu-ci#configuring-docker-clients-to-use-the-registry
4. Run all dependencies (API, DB, Orderly Server, etc.) with 
   `./dev/run-dependencies.sh`
5. Run the reporting API with `./gradlew :run`

### Generate test data.  
This is done automatically by `run-dependencies.sh` above. To generate a test
Orderly directory to develop against, run the `:app:generateTestData` gradle
task (either from within your IDE or on the command line from within the project
root directory with `./gradlew :app:generateTestData`).

The above task will generate two Orderly directorys; one at `./src/app/demo`
and one at `./src/app/git`. The latter contains an Orderly directory which is
also a git repo, the former contains several different types of report. These
are used for integration tests and for running locally.

### Run tests
To run the tests, use `./gradlew test` having first run `run-dependencies.sh`.
You may have to run `sudo chmod 766 /etc/montagu/reports_api/token_key/public_key.der`
or similar to let the tests write to this file.

## Regenerate database interface
```
cd src
# Make sure you have a fresh copy of the db
rm -r app/demo && ./gradlew :app:generateTestData
# Generate the classes
./gradlew :generateDatabaseInterface
```

## Docker build
The Teamcity build
1. Pulls in artifacts `demo` and `git` from the Orderly container build.
2. Runs `./scripts/make-build-env.sh` which builds a Docker image containing the source code and dependencies.
3. Runs `./scripts/build-app.sh` which uses the above image, mounting the `demo` folder as a volume, to compile code, run tests (for this purpose also running an Orderly Server image with the `git` folder mounted as a volume) and build a Docker image containing the compiled app code.

To build the image locally you will have to replace step one with generating the `demo` folder in your project directory following instructions here: https://github.com/vimc/orderly/tree/master/docker

## Docker run
To make use of a built image, run:

        docker pull docker.montagu.dide.ic.ac.uk:5000/montagu-reporting-api:master
        docker run --rm -p 8080:8080 -v {PATH_TO_ORDERLY}:/orderly docker.montagu.dide.ic.ac.uk:5000/montagu-reporting-api:master

replacing `{PATH_TO_OPRDERLY}` with an absolute path to an Orderly directory.

Commit message:

Updates to README file for Docker Compose, Vault

README.md, after:

# Montagu Reporting API

See [spec.md](/src/app/src/test/resources/spec/spec.md) for the full API specification.

## Developing
System requirements:
* **openjdk 8**: Install as per: https://openjdk.java.net/install/ Be sure to install the jdk package 
(for  development), not just the jre package.
* **Docker**
* **Docker Compose version 1.21.0:** This is version installed on the servers. There was a breaking change in 
v1.23.0 which appends random strings to container names each time they run.
* **Vault**

1. Make sure you check out recursively, using `git clone --recursive URL`.
2. Install Docker and add your user to the Docker group 
   (e.g. https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-install-and-use-docker-on-ubuntu-16-04.) 
   You may need to restart your machine for group changes to take effect.
3. Configure your Docker client to use our registry by following instructions 
   here: https://github.com/vimc/montagu-registry/tree/master#login 
   
   This is where you will need to have Vault 
   installed, and the VAULT_ADDR variable specified, e.g. by adding 
   `export VAULT_ADDR='https://support.montagu.dide.ic.ac.uk:8200'` to your profile using ` sudo nano ~/.profile` 
4. Run all dependencies (API, DB, Orderly Server, etc.) with 
   `./dev/run-dependencies.sh`
5. Run the reporting API, either with `./gradlew :run` from the src dir, or through your IDE e.g by opening src/build.gradle as a 
   project in IntelliJ, which will display available gradle tasks in the UI. Follow the instructions for triggering a
   go signal. The API will now be available on your local machine at http://127.0.0.1:8081
 

### Generate test data.  
This is done automatically by `./dev/run-dependencies.sh` above. To generate a test
Orderly directory to develop against, run the `:app:generateTestData` gradle
task (either from within your IDE or on the command line from within the project
root directory with `./gradlew :app:generateTestData`).

The above task will generate two Orderly directorys; one at `./src/app/demo`
and one at `./src/app/git`. The latter contains an Orderly directory which is
also a git repo, the former contains several different types of report. These
are used for integration tests and for running locally.

### Run tests
To run the tests, use `./gradlew test` from the src dir, having first run `run-dependencies.sh`.
You may have to run `sudo chmod 766 /etc/montagu/reports_api/token_key/public_key.der`
or `sudo chmod u+rw /etc/montagu/reports_api/token_key` or similar to let the tests write to this file.

## Regenerate database interface
```
cd src
# Make sure you have a fresh copy of the db
rm -r app/demo && ./gradlew :app:generateTestData
# Generate the classes
./gradlew :generateDatabaseInterface
```

## Docker build
The Teamcity build
1. Pulls in artifacts `demo` and `git` from the Orderly container build.
2. Runs `./scripts/make-build-env.sh` which builds a Docker image containing the source code and dependencies.
3. Runs `./scripts/build-app.sh` which uses the above image, mounting the `demo` folder as a volume, to compile code, run tests (for this purpose also running an Orderly Server image with the `git` folder mounted as a volume) and build a Docker image containing the compiled app code.

To build the image locally you will have to replace step one with generating the `demo` folder in your project directory following instructions here: https://github.com/vimc/orderly/tree/master/docker

## Docker run
To make use of a built image, run:

        docker pull docker.montagu.dide.ic.ac.uk:5000/montagu-reporting-api:master
        docker run --rm -p 8080:8080 -v {PATH_TO_ORDERLY}:/orderly docker.montagu.dide.ic.ac.uk:5000/montagu-reporting-api:master

replacing `{PATH_TO_OPRDERLY}` with an absolute path to an Orderly directory.
